---
layout: post
title:  "Planning for Business Continuity in CISSP"
date:   2020-04-21 10:01
background: '/img/posts/01.jpg'
---
These days, I am preparing for CISSP. Let's discuss the BCP in this post.

BCP means business continuity planning. It involves accessing the risks to organizational processes and creating policies, plans, and procedures
to minimize the impact those risks might have on the organization if they were to occur. The BCP is typically strategically focused at a high
level and center themselves on business processes and operations, while DRP(Disaster Recovery Planning) tends to be more tactical in nature and describes
technical activities such ad recovery sites, backups, and fault tolerance.

The BCP process has for main steps:
- Project scope and planning
  - Structured analysis of the business's organization;
  - The creation of a BCP team;
  - An assessment of the resources available to participate in business continuity activities;
  - An analysis of the legal and regulatory landscape.
  
  The identification process is critical. It provides the groundwork necessary to help identify potential members of the BCP team. What's more,
  it provides the foundation for the remainder fo the BCP process.
  
- Business impact assessment(BIA)
  BIA identifies the resources that are critical to an organization's ongoing viability and the threats posed to those resources.
  The results of the BIA provide you with quantitative measures that can help you prioritize the commitment of business continuity resources.

- Continuity planning
  This phase focuses on developing and implementing a continuity strategy to minimize the impact realized risks might have on protected assets.
  - Strategy development
  - Provisions and processes
  - Plan approval
  - Plan implementation
  - Training and education
- Approval and implementation
  It's time to gain top-level management endorsement of the plan.
