---
layout: post
title:  "Learn some negotiation skills."
date:   2020-03-07 09:47 
background: '/img/posts/07.png'
---
Negotiation is important in nowdays, which we use in many aspects. Effective negotiation needs some skills. Here are several skills we should know. Although I have not used them expertly, we can learn together.<br>
- Clear on your negotiating goals.
To clear your goals, you should ask yourself three key questions: <br>
A. **What's the best possible outcome?**<br>
B. **What's your bottom line?**<br>
C. **What's your plan B?**<br>
As you become clearer about each of these elements, negotiating will become easier.
- Determine your core negotiation strategy.<br>
You should know which field you should pay attention to, and what you want. Then you can move closer to your best possible outcome.
- Active Listening Skills.<br>
Use the three levels of skilful listening to find out information:<br>
**Selective**: We hear things that we believe are relevant.<br>
**Responsive**: Being responsive lets the other side know you are paying attention. This involves verbal and physical feedback. It can be nodding, or asking: “Tell me more about that.”<br>
**Playback**: Restating what you think you heard and asking for confirmation. It is also beneficial to follow up with a confirming question. An example would be: “Have I got everything, or might there be something I missed?”
- Know the other side.<br>
Learn as much as you can about the other side. Determine their negotiating style and skills. Also, research their backgrounds, hopes, fears, aspirations, and interests. These little things can mean everything.
Recognizing the reasons why people act the way they do, and having the ability to communicate with a broad range of behavioral styles, offers the skilled negotiator the ability to reach satisfactory outcomes more consistently.<br>

Use your intelligence and wisdom to negotiate and get what you want.





**REFERENCE**
1. [Inc.](https://www.inc.com/david-finkel/which-of-these-5-negotiation-rules-are-you-breaking-every-day-hint-its-costing-your-thousands-of-dollars.html)
2. [Smallbusiness.](https://smallbusiness.chron.com/top-ten-effective-negotiation-skills-31534.html)
3. [Negotiations.](https://www.negotiations.com/articles/negotiating-skills/)